John Unsworth's "scholarly primitives" are a very good starting point that we can use to identify and describe human creative processes. These human creative processes are uniquely humanistic and can be found, at least in part, in all scholarly endeavors. That is not to say the primitives identified by Unsworth are complete or without error, but they do provide us with a valuable thinking space to study how we create and interpret the humanities. Unsworth himself repeatedly admitted in his own paper that they are only a starting point and that “the two that seem to me to be the true primitives here are "referring" and "representing" since each of these is in some way involved in all the others” (Unsworth, 2000).

People have felt a disconnect1 between Unsworth’s traditional methods and the “digital methods” and this is my interpretation of that disconnect: there is a disconnect because whenever we try to interpret something that came out of a machine we immediately fallback to using the traditional methods. While we may feel like we are working under different methods when we use greater technology, we are still using the same traditional methods. For example, computers may aid us in distant reading, but we still, in every instance, have to use our own traditional methods in order to interpret the output from the computer. That’s not a bad thing, but it should be something that we knowingly recognize.

Traditional methods are all about how humans interpret and create. Digital methods are all about how computers interpret and create. When I say this I mean that we can never really touch digital methods in the same way that we can touch traditional methods. Computers are an incredibly powerful layer of obfuscation until we are able to interpret directly from digital methods without using traditional methods. I'm not at all diminishing the amazing power that we have when we use traditional methods to build digital tools which perform traditionally-inspired digital methods to which we interpret data using traditional methods. There is great power in that. It’s very human to use traditional methods and we should recognize that it’s almost impossible for us not to use traditional primitives, but something inside of me tells me that we have not fully realized the power of digital primitives.

Unsworth has given us a nudge forward as we create and identify our own classifications for scholarly works and creative processes. Digital methods appear very similar to traditional methods, but digital content already looks a lot different from traditional content. I would suggest that this is because we are starting to figure out how to create digital content natively, but we have yet to figure out what the digital methods are, but they probably look similar to I/O Redirection. I don't say this out of spite, but only because anything we do output, we will eventually interpret using traditional primitives.
