Anthropology distinguishes between race and ethnicity. White Guilt sounds like a term a sociologist or psychologist made up. That being said White and Black are real ethnicities but beyond surface level it has nothing to do with whether you have light or dark skin.

I don't think the White/Black people are doing anything unusual or unique because they live in 2021 and they live in the United States. Exploitation and human abuse is a serious problem. As an individual people can only do as much as they put their minds to. It's much easier to deny something than deal with cognitive dissonance and believe something uncomfortable, or even more radical to dedicate your life to making things better in your local community.

However, I don't believe that people feel guilty for the actions of others. I've never experienced that. Personally, I'm a nice person to other people and not because I feel guilty. Perhaps White Guilt is a misrecognition that some people are trash and some people aren't. Is that denialism? You might view it as such but it is your choice. Racism is real but not everyone is a racist and even fewer people are unracist (which is to say they are racist but in a nice way. but maybe this is only race fetishism?) I think people can be good people without being forced to participate in "reverse discrimination". 

Should more have been done to reduce past harms? Absolutely. But for most of these past tragedies there are few living survivors. The best thing that people could do is improve life for everyone and not create more racism. People should feel safe walking the street at night regardless of their age/sex/gender/race/ethnicity. Shitty cops hurt everyone. There are useful and helpful cops but I've never met one in the US. Crime in the US also seems different from other countries but maybe this is just the media.

The US is fairly diverse so many areas will be different than others. Some parts of the US are more homogeneous than others but the US is fairly unique in the variety of people who live in the same neighborhood but only certain neighborhoods are like that. 

Unfortunately, It looks like many cities are still fairly segregated by racial boundaries even if there is no law enforcing this. So the US is unique in this aspect. I would say most countries are largely homogeneous or made up of two or three groups of ethnicities. The US is unique that there are large groups of people from many countries. Looking at Wikipedia the biggest ethnic categories in the US are hard to find. Unfortunately, many people got used to the psychologist produced blending of race and ethnicity categories (The first census only asked if someone was [Native American](https://www.reddit.com/r/MapPorn/comments/6jnxhy/how_the_us_census_classifies_races600x302/), a slave, or neither. This later evolved into the 7 categories but the US has always been more multiracial and more diverse than White/Black but they were measuring in a stupid and annoying way. Racial categories are mostly meaningless and inherently racist. eg. I'm not Native American, I'm Navajo. There is a big difference. Most people outside of the White/Black construct feel this way).

Additionally, I would like to make it painfully obvious that the differences between individuals in one ethnic group are larger than the differences between the average person of that group and the average person of another group. 

Similarly, the differences between the average Middle Eastern person and the average American person will be smaller than the differences between the average person of an ethnic group within the Middle East and the average person of a different ethnic group within the Middle East.

That being said this is only my external view and a more amenable answer might be found by interviewing people who are in that White/Black headspace.
