> they don't seem to be doing anything special

this is not exactly true. they are doing a lot of things but you're not seeing it? Are you actively looking at what they are doing? They were one of the first movers to take the virus seriously and lock down their borders in Jan/Feb. I didn't even hear about this and I traveled here in March when they opened up again because they felt like they had the virus under control. 
New arrivals were required to quarentine for two weeks in government facilities. The average number of people in quarentine over the past 6 months was between 30,000 and 60,000 people. They  rarely tested random people who weren't suspected to have the virus but they often blocked off whole streets if there was potential community spread in the area and tested those people.

They had zero deaths for a long time and I mostly believe that is an accurate fact despite not testing many random people. It does seem like a miracle but also they were criticized early on for taking "too extreme" measures. They did a localized lockdown as soon as they saw even one case of community spread.

The virus was once again under control in May and they opened up domestic travel for about three months until last month when a man got sick and they tested him for coronavirus. He tested positive three times and so they locked down the city in a matter of days. They quarentined all people who recently left the city and arrived in their hometowns, they stopped everyone from leaving the town and they put blockades within the town to prevent travel from one neighborhood to another. They stopped all restaurants including delivery. They started random testing and required all foreigners to be tested (blood and nose). Has your city done this?

They still don't have a concrete answer for where the origin of the virus in the late July Da Nang case was. As far as I know all the foreigners tested negative. So likely the virus was either from viral latency, hidden community spread maybe even between cities, or from illegal people crossing the border. They tried to find illegal people and they found and tested at least 100 of them but they were negative too
